As mentioned when defining component integration testing and its goals,
aspects are a great way of addressing cross-cutting
concerns like logging and security; however,
testing aspects isn't as straightforward as normal unit testing.
In the customer service, I added the logging aspect ControllerLoggingAspect.
The aspect is, as its name suggests,
is for handling logging with the controllers.
We will want to log all the request parameters sent to endpoint,
and the response that endpoint is sending back to the client.
This can provide valuable information when attempting
to debug an issue in production.
And by using the aspect, we keep our controllers neat,
tidy, and focused on display concerns, not logging concerns.
To validate the logging messages being written, I've create a custom appender.
The appender will simply add all logging events to a static list.
I also added the clearEvents method to clear out all
logging statements between tests.
In logback-test,
I've configured a logback to use the TestAppender I just created.
I've created yet another test class for the customer controller,
TestControllerAspectLoggingWeaving.
This class appropriately will be focusing on how
the logging aspect is operating.
We have three concerns we want to test for.
The first is, does aspect properly log a successful request?
However, for these tests, we are primarily going to be concerned with,
at a high level, if logging statements are being written.
This comes back again to the point I've been stressing in this course,
which is, make sure each test class is testing on the thing it is concerned with.
This test class is specifically concerned with,
is the aspect being woven around the controller endpoints,
not if the correct information if being logged.
Like any other class,
ControllerLoggingAspect should have unit tests written for it,
and those tests will verify the content of the logging statement is
correct and will verify edge cases are being covered.
Segregating these responsibilities helps to reduce
maintenance costs for our test.
To make the process of testing this functionality easier,
I will also be using the AssertJ library.
In the module, Documenting Code with Tests,
I go into more depth on the AssertJ library.
Running our happy path test case, testLoggingAspectForSuccessfulRequest,
we get back a green result,
telling us that the logging aspect is logging incoming
requests and successful outgoing responses.
The second concern is,
does the aspect log when an exception is thrown from the controller?
TestLoggingAspectWhenExceptionIsThrown will verify that behavior.
And green being returned tells us that is working.
The final concern is we want to make sure that aspect
is fully covering all the endpoints.
In verifyAllEndPointsAreBeingWeaved,
we will simply call both the endpoints implemented in CustomerController.
And once again, we get green results. Great!